# Code for the Paper & Tutorial: Text Classification of German Mental Healthcare Data: A Hands-on Tutorial on Natural Language Processing Techniques
### Silvan Hornstein, Kirsten Zantvoort, Drin Ferizaj, Ulrike Lueken, Burkhardt Funk, Kevin Hilbert
### Abstract
Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a promising approach for the extraction of meaningful information from text data in clinical psychology, a field heavily relying on language. While ample resources cover the implementation of such techniques, the majority of them focus on English data. However, not all NLP techniques are effortlessly transferable to other languages and model availability differs. Therefore, this tutorial paper provides a hands-on Python guide for applying NLP on  German data. Specifically, it discusses a use case of around 14.000 comments (0.8 mio words) from two reddit subthreads on depression and ADHD. With this example, we guide through various text classification techniques, ultimately predicting what subreddit a comment was taken from. Following the introduction of preprocessing, bag-of-word methods and word embeddings will be described as feature extraction methods. In the next step, we explore transformer-based models like BERT, using Hugging Face. We further consider recent Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPT) based approaches for our classification task. We end by highlighting the generalizability of the presented approach for other non-English languages. As such, this paper contributes to the democratization of NLP methods by providing a hands-on tutorial and making both the code and the data available for interested researchers to replicate.

Submitted to the Special Issue "Text Mining in Psychology" of the Zeitschrift für Psychologie.

### Links:
Call: https://econtent.hogrefe.com/doi/10.1027/2151-2604/a000514#_i8
